Well I can do this course Marchal and the last course module about routeing we had first contact with
observables.
Now I want to dive deeper into observables in this section.
Now you could create a whole course about observables.
So we're not going to dive that deeply into them but I want you to understand what observables actually
are and what you could use them for and why angler uses them.
So what is an observable and observable basically can be thought of as a data source.
Now in our angler project and observable basically just is an object we import from a third party package
our exchange is the observable here is implemented in a way that it follows the observable pattern.
So we have an observable and we have an observer in between.
We have a stream a timeline.
And on this timeline we can have multiple events emitted by the observable or data packages.
You could say emitted by that observable depending on the data source of that observable of course.
So the observable could emit data because you trigger it to do so.
You can do that programmatically.
It could be connected to a button and therefore when ever the partners collect an event in a data package
is emitted automatically or as the angler HTP service does it.
It's connected to HTP request.
So when the response returns their response is emitted as a data package.
And there are dozens of other data sources too.
We will have a look on where to find more soon.
So as I said our part is the observer.
This actually is your code you could say it's the SUBSCRIBE function you saw earlier or at least it
has something to do with that.
There you have three ways of handling data packages.
You get a handle the normal data you can handle errors or you can handle the completion of the observable
because these are the three types of data packages you can receive and India's in these hooks in these
boxes you could say your code gets executed.
So you can determine what should happen if I receive a new data package what should happen if I receive
an error.
What should happen when the observable eventually completes side note and observable doesn't have to
complete.
There are observables for example hooked up to a normal button which never complete because how would
you know when it completes.
A user could click the button how often the user wants right.
Ivor absorbable is like the HTB request that you apprehend will have a clear and and will complete eventually.
Because once the responses there what else should happen it's done.
So this is how the observable pattern generally works.
And of course you use it to handle asynchronous tasks because all these data sources your user events
are triggered in your code or HTP request are asynchronous tasks you don't know when they will happen
and you know how long that will take.
So if you execute your normal application code you don't want to wait for these events or you don't
want to wait for the completion of such HTP request because that would block your program would block
your logic.
Therefore we need methods of handling such asynchronous tasks.
And historically you might have used callbacks or promises.
And it's not necessarily bad to use them observables is just a different approach of handling that a
different alternative and angler embraces observables which is why well I chose to explain these because
angular uses them a lot and actually observables have one major advantage.
Their operators which I will show later in the section to back to the slide.
So we got our observable and we get our observer with the three buckets you could say or with the three
hooks where different code is executed depending on the type of package we receive and then exactly
this happens.
The absorbable might emit a couple of normal data packages.
It might have been an error or eventually it might get completed and the respective code is then executed.
So that's the theory.
Let's now take a closer look in our actual project.